.\"t
.TH  "" "" 
.SS g_rms
.PP
\f[B]VERSION 4.5.5-dev-20110920-5282f-unknown
.PD 0
.P
.PD
 Sun 12 Aug 2012\f[]
.PP
   *   *   *   *   *
.SS Description
.PP
\f[B]g_rms\f[] compares two structures by computing the root mean square
deviation (RMSD), the size-independent \f[I]ρ\f[] similarity parameter
(\f[B]rho\f[]) or the scaled \f[I]ρ\f[] (\f[B]rhosc\f[]), see Maiorov &
Crippen, Proteins \f[B]22\f[], 273 (1995).
This is selected by \f[B]-what\f[].
.PP
Each structure from a trajectory (\f[B]-f\f[]) is compared to a
reference structure.
The reference structure is taken from the structure file (\f[B]-s\f[]).
.PP
With option \f[B]-mir\f[] also a comparison with the mirror image of the
reference structure is calculated.
This is useful as a reference for \[aq]significant\[aq] values, see
Maiorov & Crippen, Proteins \f[B]22\f[], 273 (1995).
.PP
Option \f[B]-prev\f[] produces the comparison with a previous frame the
specified number of frames ago.
.PP
Option \f[B]-m\f[] produces a matrix in [xpm] format of comparison
values of each structure in the trajectory with respect to each other
structure.
This file can be visualized with for instance \f[B]xv\f[] and can be
converted to postscript with [xpm2ps].
.PP
Option \f[B]-fit\f[] controls the least-squares fitting of the
structures on [top] of each other: complete fit (rotation and
translation), translation only, or no fitting at all.
.PP
Option \f[B]-mw\f[] controls whether mass weighting is done or not.
If you select the option (default) and supply a valid [tpr] file masses
will be taken from there, otherwise the masses will be deduced from the
\f[B]atommass.dat\f[] file in \f[B]GMXLIB\f[].
This is fine for proteins, but not necessarily for other molecules.
A default mass of 12.011 amu (carbon) is assigned to unknown atoms.
You can check whether this happend by turning on the \f[B]-debug\f[]
flag and inspecting the [log] file.
.PP
With \f[B]-f2\f[], the \[aq]other structures\[aq] are taken from a
second trajectory, this generates a comparison matrix of one trajectory
versus the other.
.PP
Option \f[B]-bin\f[] does a binary dump of the comparison matrix.
.PP
Option \f[B]-bm\f[] produces a matrix of average bond angle deviations
analogously to the \f[B]-m\f[] option.
Only bonds between atoms in the comparison group are considered.
.SS Files
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l.
T{
option
T}@T{
filename
T}@T{
type
T}@T{
description
T}
_
T{
\f[B]-s\f[]
T}@T{
topol.tpr
T}@T{
Input
T}@T{
Structure+mass(db): [tpr] [tpb] [tpa] [gro] [g96] [pdb]
T}
T{
\f[B]-f\f[]
T}@T{
traj.xtc
T}@T{
Input
T}@T{
Trajectory: [xtc] [trr] [trj] [gro] [g96] [pdb] cpt
T}
T{
\f[B]-f2\f[]
T}@T{
traj.xtc
T}@T{
Input, Opt.
T}@T{
Trajectory: [xtc] [trr] [trj] [gro] [g96] [pdb] cpt
T}
T{
\f[B]-n\f[]
T}@T{
index.ndx
T}@T{
Input, Opt.
T}@T{
Index file
T}
T{
\f[B]-o\f[]
T}@T{
rmsd.xvg
T}@T{
Output
T}@T{
xvgr/xmgr file
T}
T{
\f[B]-mir\f[]
T}@T{
rmsdmir.xvg
T}@T{
Output, Opt.
T}@T{
xvgr/xmgr file
T}
T{
\f[B]-a\f[]
T}@T{
avgrp.xvg
T}@T{
Output, Opt.
T}@T{
xvgr/xmgr file
T}
T{
\f[B]-dist\f[]
T}@T{
rmsd-dist.xvg
T}@T{
Output, Opt.
T}@T{
xvgr/xmgr file
T}
T{
\f[B]-m\f[]
T}@T{
rmsd.xpm
T}@T{
Output, Opt.
T}@T{
X PixMap compatible matrix file
T}
T{
\f[B]-bin\f[]
T}@T{
rmsd.dat
T}@T{
Output, Opt.
T}@T{
Generic data file
T}
T{
\f[B]-bm\f[]
T}@T{
bond.xpm
T}@T{
Output, Opt.
T}@T{
X PixMap compatible matrix file
T}
.TE
.PP
<http://www.gromacs.org> <gromacs@gromacs.org>
